
TODO: Formal computational workflows rarely prominently feature in scientific research outputs, even if they were part of the research methodology. Most benefits from adopting computational workflow software are obvious, such as clarity, automation and accessibility. Many of the costs are also well known, such as perceived inflexibility and a lack of efficiency. A number of recent studies in computational environmental sciences have developed their own project-specific workflow solutions from scratch rather than adopting one of many existing workflow software (e.g. Kepler, Taverna, etc) that have been created specifically to meet these needs. These workflows, share many common features, but are diverse in the specific features that are implemented. Here we analyse why similar scientific workflows have been reinvented so many times and show that it highlights a key current lack of capabilities required to meet the demands of modern computational inference. Building on this analysis, we identify features that the next generation of workflow software must possess in order to meet the demands of the inference age. These are  (i) the separation of model structures, parameters and driver datasets (ii) support for multiple modes of abstraction within the same model  structure (iii) the ability to overlay a traceability framework  over model structures and monitor model behaviour on the basis of such a framework (iv) support for a variety of inference  libraries, (v) the adoption of a provenance tracking rather than workflow paradigm (vi) the ability to structure computational workflows hierarchically (vii) distributed version control for models and data (viii) distributed and cloud based data access and retrieval (ix) remote computation and (x) a richer variety of data and model component interfaces.

Other ideas for titles:

* _Reproducibility in ecological and environmental modelling: whether and why scientific workflows, and where next?_
* _Software practices that promote interoperability {and reproducibility} for ecological forecasting_
* Computational workflows for the era of ecological inference
<!--- a mouthfull-->